# CHALLENGE 02 - SLAVES AND FREE NEGROS


## LIBRARY

- {tidyverse} --
- {camcorder} --
- {glue} --
- {ggtext} --
- {showtext} --


## NOTES

This was an interesting exercise. When I first started I thought I was creating a 100 percent stacked bar chart. Then on closer look at the original plate, it seemed original picture may have been ripped from some book or bound journal (i.e., the left edge of the image looks like it was ripped carefully, but unevenly from a book). 

However, once I noticed the tear it became clear to me that the chart looked more like an area chart that had been rotated and not a stacked bar chart. Although that would not make too much sense either.

Anyway, to create the appearance of the tear, I learned to apply a function that creates a random walk with a linear trend.

```
rip <- function(N, x0, mu, variance) {
  z <- cumsum(rnorm(n = N, mean = 0, sd = sqrt(variance)))
  t <- 1:N
  x <- x0 + t*mu+z
  return(x)}


df2 <- tibble(year = seq(1790, 1870.1,length.out=3000),
             high = 3 - rip(3000, 0, 0, .00001))
```

In essence, the rip function creates a random walk that starts at a certain value (x0), follows a linear trend (t * mu), and has random fluctuations (z) added to it over time steps (t). This can be useful for simulating various real-world phenomena that involve trends with random variations, such as stock prices, website traffic, or animal movement patterns.

* This creates a data frame with 3000 rows, representing years from 1790 to 1870.1.
* The high column is generated by calling the rip function with:
    * `N = 3000 (3000 steps)`
    * `x0 = 0 (starting value)`
    * `mu = 0 (no drift)`
    * `variance = 0.00001` (very small variance for small random steps)
* The resulting values in high represent a random walk starting at 3 and slowly fluctuating with very small steps.

I am grateful for the information provided by [GADO D.Z Abdoul](https://github.com/Datadoulla)


## LIBRARY

## REFERENCE
1. Hughes E, Scherer C, Karamanis G. camcorder: Record Your Plot History. Published online October 3, 2022. Accessed February 7, 2024. https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/camcorder/index.html
2. Hester J, Bryan J, Software P, PBC. glue: Interpreted String Literals. Published online January 9, 2024. Accessed January 26, 2024. https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/glue/index.html
4. Qiu Y. showtext. Published online January 20, 2024. Accessed January 21, 2024. https://github.com/yixuan/showtext
5. Wickham H, RStudio. tidyverse: Easily Install and Load the “Tidyverse.” Published online February 22, 2023. Accessed February 2, 2024. https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/tidyverse/index.html
7. Wilke CO, Wiernik BM. ggtext: Improved Text Rendering Support for “ggplot2.” Published online September 16, 2022. Accessed January 26, 2024. https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/ggtext/index.html
